# Merkle-Proof-Verification
This assignment is from https://cs251.stanford.edu/hw/proj1.pdf

In this project you will implement a Python function to generate a Merkle proof. 

1. prover.py: This python script first generates a list of a thousand strings that will make up
the root of a Merkle tree. It then calls a function gen merkle proof() to generate a Merkle
proof for one of the leaves (leaf # 743). Finally, it writes the proof to a text file proof.txt.
Your job is to implement the function gen merkle proof(). The missing code in that
function can be implemented in less than ten lines of Python.
2. verifier.py: This python script contains a hardcoded Merkle root for the Merkle tree
generated by the prover. The script loads the proof in proof.txt and verifies it with respect
to the hardcoded Merkle root. You should not make any changes to this file. However, you
should familiarize yourself with the function compute merkle root from proof(), which is
the core of the verifier. This will help you implement the function gen merkle proof(). Your
prover will need to generate a Merkle proof that is accepted by this verifier.
3. proof-for-leaf-95.txt: is an example Merkle proof (for leaf #95) that is accepted by the
verifier. Your task is to generate a proof file like this for leaf # 743.

After you implement the function gen merkle proof() in prover.py, running both scripts one
after the other should generate the following output:
```
$ python3 prover.py
I generated 1000 leaves for a Merkle tree of height 10.
I generated a Merkle proof for leaf #743 in file proof.txt
$ python3 verifier.py
Have hardcoded root of committed Merkle tree.
I verified the Merkle proof: leaf #743 in the committed tree is "data item 743".
```
It is recommended that you test the proof's validity by changing one character in the proof.txt file and verifying that the verifier rejects the proof.

